Design proposal to add FBC support for run bundle (#112)
operator-framework/enhancements: enhancements/sdk-fbc-run-bundle.md

reviewers:
  - "@joelanford"
  - "@jmrodri"
  - "@VenkatRamaraju"
approvers:
  - "@joelanford"
  - "@jmrodri"
  - "@VenkatRamaraju"
creation-date: 2022-04-20
last-updated: 2022-04-20
status: implementable
see-also:
replaces:
superseded-by:

---

# Add FBC support to run bundle

## Release Signoff Checklist

- [X] Enhancement is `implementable`
- [X] Design details are appropriately documented from clear requirements
- [X] Test plan is defined
- [X] Graduation criteria for dev preview, tech preview, GA

## Open Questions

- Do we need to build a File-Based Catalog to run this command?

  - In the case where an index image isn't provided, we need to build a File-Based Catalog on the fly when `run bundle` command is invoked.

- Do we need to make our own image to use as a default one for `run bundle` and `run bundle-upgrade`?

  - Currently, we are using `quay.io/operator-framework/opm:latest` as the default index image. This image should suffice as the default image for both index formats (FBC and SQLite images).

- While initializing the FBC, should the channel received from the bundle annotations be used to initialize the default channel name in the `opm init` command?

>   - We should be able to handle bundles that don't have channel metadata on the annotations.

Reviewer: The answer here says that we should be able to handle bundles without this info but does not answer the question. Should we use or not the annotations when the data is informed?

Author: @camilamacedo86 I think bundles won't have to have channel metadata included going forward. So we should be able to handle channel assignment when the channel metadata doesn't exist. 

When a bundle contains the annotation, we use it as the channel name to create the FBC. If doesn't have one, then we generate a random name or a non-random name with a meaningful prefix/suffix. Going by the discussions, it seems that a randomly generated name would be better. 

I've added this detail in the EP as well for this question.

- If we don’t get channel information from the bundle, can we add it to a default channel or to the channel HEAD?

  - For FBC, channel membership and package-level metadata embedded in bundles is ignored. So we should design FBC tooling to ignore that as well. The channel name can either be hardcoded (e.g. channel name = `develop`) or it can be derived. Hardcoding the channel name may be better as deriving it to a name that contains the package name seems to be redundant as the channel is already a member of the package.

> 

Reviewer: Why does someone author want to use a run bundle informing the index?
Is that to check if is possible to add the new bundle version and etc to the index? 
If yes, are we properly addressing this need by ignoring the channel? 
c/c @joelanford

- Can we assume the Channel’s “entries” field be initialized to an array with only one element, i.e., {name: “api-operator.v.0.1”} with no “replaces” field?

  - "replaces" field is required for `run bundle-upgrade` but for run bundle, it's ok to assume for the channel entries to have just one entry.

## Summary

> The goal of this enhancement is to discuss the impact of the new File-Based Catalog (FBC) and how it affects the Operator SDK, specifically the existing `run-bundle` command. This EP discusses the implementation/workflow changes and proposes a solution for the `run bundle` command to support the new File-Based Catalog (FBC) index format along with continuing to support the existing SQLite based index images.

Author: @camilamacedo86 Good idea, rephrased it to match your input.

## Motivation

One of the main goals of the Operator SDK is to enable operator developers to install and run their operators using Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM). Currently, there are two commands in the Operator SDK for installing an operator bundle (`run bundle`) and upgrading an operator bundle to a newer version (`run bundle-upgrade`) using OLM. Operator SDK installs and upgrades the operator bundles using opm tooling that inherently uses a SQLite database under the hood, which is responsible for generating the registry database as well as the index images. We use `opm registry add` under the hood to create an ephemeral index image during the `run bundle(-upgrade)` workflow; however, that command is being deprecated.

As OLM is transitioning to declarative config, which is a more human readable and consumable format of a catalog that is in the form of `JSON/YAML`, Operator SDK should transition the existing `run bundle(-upgrade)` commands to support declarative config index images and default to using File-Based Catalogs so that Operator authors can continue using Operator SDK to install/upgrade their operator bundles using the new FBC format.

> This proposal discusses changes to the `run bundle` functionality to be able to support File-Based Catalogs and how the registry pod should be created to support the generated FBC format i.e., to modify/replace the existing opm commands used to create the ephemeral index image during registry pod creation by leveraging the Operator Registry APIs.

Author: These are motivations for the EP and not FBC. Removed the usage of upgrade as it's not a goal of this EP.

### Goals

- Operator SDK’s `run bundle` command should work with File-Based Catalogs and be able to install an operator bundle using a valid FBC.

- Operator SDK should insert a bundle image into an existing index image that gets passed in as a parameter in the `run bundle` command.

> - Operator SDK's `run bundle` command should still be able support SQLite index images along with the FBC images until `opm registry add` and `opm index` and other SQLite-related commands are removed in a future OpenShift release.

Author: Removed the lines about OCP and rephrased goals in my latest commit.

- The CLI for `run bundle` command should remain exactly the same i.e. no user-facing changes.

### Non-Goals

> - Operator SDK’s `run bundle` and `run bundle-upgrade` commands share a lot of common functionality and this EP does not discuss the impact on the run bundle-upgrade command. A separate EP is required for the `run bundle-upgrade` command.

Author: This is to state that a separate EP is required for `run bundle-upgrade` command.

> - Migrating from old catalog images to newer catalog versions with FBC support is not a goal of this EP.

Reviewer 2: We wanted to make it clear that we are not migrating anyone's catalog images for them: If a FBC is passed in as an index image, we will perform FBC related tasks (writing to file in ephemeral pod, serving with opm serve, etc). If SQLite is passed in, we will use the existing implementation. However, we will not convert a SQLite internally to FBC in SDK. We wanted to make this point clear.

> - Migrating from old catalog images to newer catalog versions with FBC support is not a goal of this EP.

Author: I agree with @VenkatRamaraju's comment.

- Another non-goal, is that `run bundle` is **NOT** intended to help users build and manage File-Based indexes. It is an opinionated command to help users test simple bundle-based execution scenarios with ephemeral indexes.

## Proposal

> ### User Stories

Reviewer 2: I also recall having stories related to the use case where OLM isn't installed using `operator-sdk olm install`. Is that out of scope for this list of stories?

Reviewer 2: I see. Installing olm in a cluster is a prerequisite to the run bundle command. OLM can be installed in a cluster in multiple ways, one of which is `operator-sdk olm install`. That is what I was trying to point out here.

Author: I don't think we need to make any required changes to accomodate the use-case when OLM is installed differently. 

One of the assumptions of this command to work is that OLM should be installed (it may be installed through `operator-sdk olm install` or cloning the repo and running `make run-local`)

> - Another non-goal, is that `run bundle` is **NOT** intended to help users build and manage File-Based indexes. It is an opinionated command to help users test simple bundle-based execution scenarios with ephemeral indexes.

Author: This is to explicitly clarify what the command non-goals are. The command is intended to install operator bundles when a user provides an existing index image (FBC or SQLite format), or when just the bundle image is passed via the CLI (in this case, the command uses default upstream opm image `quay.io/operator-framework/opm:latest`. So my point is that the command will not help users build or manage these indexes for ex. updating the index on their registry by adding the bundle image provided by them via the CLI.

#### Story 1

> As an Operator SDK user, I want to be able to install an operator bundle with File-Based Catalog support using OLM without having to provide a catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an SDK/OLM maintainer, I want to ensure the SDK is updated to use the new format and APIs provided by OLM/OPM so that, we can sort out the technical debts and be able to no longer support the old syntax and format when they are no longer supported by OPM/OLM.  
```

#### Story 2

> As an Operator SDK user, I want to be able to install an operator bundle with File-Based Catalog support using OLM when I want to use an existing File-Based Catalog as the index image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an Operator SDK user, I would like to be able to inform an index using the FBC format via the `--index` option provided on the command `run bundle` so that, I can use this option with the index catalog built from OperatorHub (quay.io/operatorhubio/catalog) for example. 
```

#### Story 3

> As an Operator author, I want to use the Operator SDK’s `run bundle` command that has support for both File-Based Catalog and SQLite index images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an Operator SDK user, I would like to still be able to inform an index using the SQLIndex format via the `--index` option provided on the command `run bundle` so that, I can use this option with old indexes or indexes from sources that did not adopt the new format so far.
```

#### Story 4

> As an Operator SDK user, I want to be able to use the Operator SDK’s `run bundle` command to install the user provided bundle image with an index image that does not have FBC support (i.e. SQLite based images).

Reviewer 2: I feel like the user stories should be:
1. run bundle with no index image (default)
2. run bundle with FBC index image
3. run bundle with SQLite index image

It seems like story 2 already addresses the use case of run bundle with an FBC index image, but story 3 references the use of an FBC image again.

Author: @VenkatRamaraju These are more like goals. I've rephrased the goals to match these three scenarios. User stories, in my opinion, should be high level user objectives from the perspective of SDK/OLM maintainer, or Operator Authors, Operator SDK users.

> As an Operator SDK user, I want to be able to use the Operator SDK’s `run bundle` command to install the user provided bundle image with an index image that does not have FBC support (i.e. SQLite based images).

Reviewer: Is not this use story the same described above?
Is not this one duplicated? if not what is the diff here?

Author: Removed the 4th user story as per suggestion.

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints [optional]

> The Operator SDK currently supports running an operator bundle using OLM via the run bundle command, which is suited for the SQLite-based index format. This enhancement will address how the Operator SDK will support the new File-Based Catalog format for operator catalogs.  More Information on FBCs and how operator bundles are created using Operator SDK can be found at the links below:
> 
> - [File-Based Catalogs](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/reference/file-based-catalogs/)
> - [File-Based Catalog Issue](<https://github.com/k8s-operatorhub/community-operators/discussions/505>)
> - [Operator-Bundles](<https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry/blob/master/docs/design/operator-bundle.md>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** To know more about the new format ([FBC](https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/reference/file-based-catalogs/) see the [discussion](https://github.com/k8s-operatorhub/community-operators/discussions/505) raised on the OperatorHub repository. 
```
Could not it be in the bottom of this section? 
Seems that its an extra info and our goal here is to describe the details of how we will begin to use the new format in the command only. WDYT?

Author: @camilamacedo86 This is a short intro describing what a declarative config is and pointing to the links for more context, before we talk in detail about how we are actually creating the declarative config as a part of the `run bundle` command. I prefer to leave it here for intro as it describe the "what" before delving into "how", unless there are strong objections.

> The declarative config is a struct defined by the Operator Registry that represents the index in a format that is easily transformed to a `YAML/JSON` format. The Operator SDK will invoke Operator Registry APIs to generate various components of a declarative config and eventually insert them into the declarative config object. This object will then be converted to a human-readable form like `YAML/JSON`.

Reviewer 2: We could be more specific here:

The declarative config is a struct defined by the Operator Registry that represents a File-Based Catalog in a format that is easily transformed to a YAML/JSON format.

"Index" could also mean a SQLite index, but declarative config objects would only correspond to FBCs.

Reviewer: Why do we need to describe what is FBC on this EP?
The goal is to define how run bundle will work and not how FBC works and its motivation
in POV it is not an ep for FBC so all this content is not relevant at all.

Reviewer 2: As I mentioned in another comment, we want to provide context around the FBC to anyone who reads this EP that may not have extensive knowledge about FBCs. Additionally, we are constructing the FBC in the SDK code, so we felt it was important to outline how we are constructing the FBC. This involves detailing some components. A majority of this EP still discusses the changes proposed. We just wanted to provide some additional context.

Author: I don't think we are describing the details of FBC here. There's a separate merged enhancement for FBC altogether. This EP for run bundle with FBC support aims to explain the details of how an FBC or declarative config is created during the run bundle process. 

I like the idea of having a a very short description of what FBC is. It makes it easy for folks who are not completely familiar with the actual FBC EP who'd like to review this proposal and understand how FBC impacts SDK's `run bundle` command and the changes we are proposing.

Essentially, a basic File-Based Catalog is composed of these three components in `JSON/YAML` format. The Operator SDK generates each of these components from the Operator Registry APIs in the following manner:

[Bundle](<https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/18ca92070fb3dd5e9f7d4581b27cc3e167a082d9/internal/olm/operator/bundle/install.go#L239>)

[Package](<https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/18ca92070fb3dd5e9f7d4581b27cc3e167a082d9/internal/olm/operator/bundle/install.go#L251>)

[Channel](<https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/18ca92070fb3dd5e9f7d4581b27cc3e167a082d9/internal/olm/operator/bundle/install.go#L260>)

These three structs are used to construct the declarative config object. This declarative config object is a File-Based Catalog representation of an index with a single bundle present in it. This declarative config object can easily be transformed into `YAML/JSON` format.

> It is noteworthy that this enhancement proposal does not change the `run bundle` command from a user’s perspective. The command-line arguments and flags will remain the same. However, the Operator SDK will handle adding a newly-generated bundle to an index differently than it currently does. That is the goal of this enhancement proposal.

Reviewer 2: I think we wrote this when we were not sure if there would be any user-facing changes. We can remove it, since we already mentioned (in the goals of this EP) that there should be no user facing changes.

Author: Done, removed it.

> It is noteworthy that this enhancement proposal does not change the `run bundle` command from a user’s perspective. The command-line arguments and flags will remain the same. However, the Operator SDK will handle adding a newly-generated bundle to an index differently than it currently does. That is the goal of this enhancement proposal.

Reviewer: Seems for me that we are above describing FBC catalog and not what changes we will do in the command to begin to use it. So, is really the above text relevant to this EP?

Reviewer 2: We are detailing how the File-Based Catalog is generated "on the fly" by SDK. There are no user facing changes in the command (so far), so we are describing how the internal working of this command is changing.

#### Command Line Interface

The command line interface will remain exactly the same as the original `run bundle` command.

#### Assumptions

Like the existing run bundle command, we **assume** the following:

 1. OLM is already installed
 1. kube API is available with the permissions to create resources
 1. kubelet can see and pull the provided images (i.e. bundle and index images)
 1. If an index image is provided, we assume that it has:
    - bash, so we can change the entrypoint
    - if it is a sqlite index image, we assume that:
        - the existing registry DB located at `/database/index.db`

>         - dependencies required for `opm registry add` so we can inject the bundle into the DB

Reviewer: Why the assumptions section are relevant here? Could we not break down this section into 2 descriptions?

a) If the run bundle command is called inform the bundle only:

So here we can describe how we will create a new index using the FBC format, and etc...

b) If the run bundle command is called informing an index:

So here we can describe that we will check the label to identify if the index format is SQL index or FBC format
Then, we can describe what should have in both cases. So that, we could have more 2 subsection, if the index is SQL for and if the index in the FBC format what we will describe what technically we need to change/have for it works. 

WDYT? 
Could we not simplify this doc in this way?
Would not it make more clear what changes we need to do?

Author: I think what you are describing fits better in the "What happens when the `run bundle` command is invoked?" section in the implementation details. I've detailed out those two scenarios there. 

This section is meant to state what assumptions we are making for `run bundle` to succeed.

#### What happens when the `run bundle` command is invoked?

1. The labels from the bundle annotations are parsed. The annotations are received from the bundle image that is passed in as a required argument for the run bundle command. Operator SDK will parse information like channel name and CSV name from the labels in the bundle annotations.

2. Additionally, the Operator SDK also parses the label on the index image. The label `operators.operatorframework.io.index.configs.v1=/configs` is used to differentiate FBC images from SQLite images. If this label exists on the index image, we have two paths:

    - Create an File-Based Catalog on the fly if an index image is not being passed as user input, i.e. for the default index image.

>     - Add the bundle contents to the index image if a user provides an index image as input.

Reviewer 2: The parsing of the label is used to determine whether we will go the FBC path OR the SQLite path. It is worth mentioning that if a SQLite index image is detected, we will follow through with the existing implementation of run bundle. 

If the FBC label is found, we will **always create** the FBC on the fly. The two FBC scenarios look like the following:
1. If no index image was provided, we will serve the FBC that was generated on the fly.
2. If an FBC index image was provided, we will **_still_** generate the FBC (of the bundle-image) on the fly and then add it to the FBC representation of the index image. This resulting FBC (that has the new bundle in it) will get served.

Author: @VenkatRamaraju Updated based on your suggestion.

3. The Operator SDK, using the data gathered from the above steps as parameters, will invoke Operator Registry APIs that will generate three major components in the form of Operator Registry-defined objects - Package, Channel & Bundle.

> 4. The Operator SDK will convert these objects into more commonly-consumable formats like JSON/YAML blobs and combine these blobs together to generate a basic File-Based Catalog representation of the bundle image. In other words, the simplest File-Based Catalog consists of one package blob, one channel blob, and one bundle blob. These blobs represent the bundle data.

Reviewer 2: It's worth mentioning that these are the "generating FBC on the fly" steps that we've been referring to.

- operator-sdk run bundle <bundle-image> --index-image quay.io/example/testFBCCatalog
- operator-sdk run bundle <bundle-image> --index-image quay.io/example/testSQLiteCatalog
```

- `operator-sdk run bundle <bundle-image>` would create a File-Based Catalog (FBC) on the fly by rendering the bundle image and using the default upstream opm image `quay.io/operator-framework/opm:latest`. Bundle image contents will be served over a gRPC port through the ephemeral registry pod.
- `operator-sdk run bundle <bundle-image> --index-image quay.io/example/testFBCCatalog` would ensure that the bundle image doesn't exist in the `testFBCCatalog` index. If it exists, then we error out. If not, we add the bundle image to the index image by rendering both of these images using the Operator Registry APIs thereby appending the bundle contents to the index and serving the index over the gRPC port.
- `operator-sdk run bundle <bundle-image> --index-image quay.io/example/testSQLiteCatalog` will still be supported in the old way by making use of `opm registry add` and `opm registry serve` commands under the hood and without creating an FBC or rendering the SQLite based image.

#### Prototype Links

> - [PR](<https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/5671>) that implements FBC support in run bundle.

Reviewer: Is not it the actual implementation?

Reviewer 2: The plan is to have run bundle go into a feature branch on the SDK repository. Then, we will also open a PR for bundle-upgrade related changes to the same feature branch. After both the PRs get merged, we will open a PR from the feature branch to the master branch. We are doing this so both run bundle and run bundle-upgrade related changes go into master together.

Author: This is the actual implementation PR for `run bundle` working with both FBC and SQLite scenarios.

Reviewer: My point is that is not the Prototype as described in the doc.
Also, I do see a section Prototype in the template. 
I think it would be under Implementation History

Author: Moved it to Implementation history.

- [run bundle prototype branch](<https://github.com/rashmigottipati/operator-sdk/tree/run-bundle-prototype>).

> - Initial [POC](<https://github.com/rashmigottipati/run-bundle-POC>) to create a declarative config using Operator Registry APIs.

Reviewer: what is the diff between both prototypes? why do we have 2 prototypes? 
where/how each one of them is relevant to who will read this EP? I mean, what should we check in each case?

Author: PR and the run bundle prototype branch both refer to the working branch where we have got `run bundle` to work with File-Based Catalog. The initial POC is just something we tried out initially to create a declarative config using Operator Registry APIs (which eventually we used for creating the PR)

Reviewer: IMO that would be under Implementation History and they we would say something like:

Check [here](link) a POC to verify how to create a declarative config using Operator Registry APIs. Also, check [here] ... and by last the actually open PR with its changes which is a WIP.

Author: I moved the actual PR link to implementation history and left the prototypes here.

### Risks and Mitigations

Should we be pinning the upstream opm image `quay.io/operator-framework/opm:` or always use latest.

>     - Consider pinning this image to downstream builds.

Reviewer: Why it is added to the risk and mitigations? 
what is the risk with it?

The following are some of the risks to using this image:

>   1. if image doesn't have bash, we can't modify the entrypoint.

Reviewer: when an image has not the bash?
Why do we need to modify the entrypoint? 
Is that a risk or a scenario that we need to describe/think about how to deal with?

Author: @camilamacedo86 We currently use `sh` to change the entrypoint of the container creation command. Modifying the entrypoint enables us to run the `opm` commands in the registry pod's container. Since we changed it from bash to sh specifically, I've updated the EP to reflect the same. 

Please refer to the existing implementation of the [registry pod code](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/master/internal/olm/operator/registry/index/registry_pod.go#L225) for more details. I've mentioned this point as this assumption is true for FBC scenario as well, and the FBC image needs to have `sh` to be able to modify the entrypoint.

>   1. if opm is building index images without bash, then support for FBC based images will only exist.

Reviewer: it is not clear to me the above statement.

Author: @camilamacedo86 Based on the [comment](https://github.com/operator-framework/enhancements/pull/112#discussion_r863159318), we need `sh` in the index image so that we can modify our entrypoint to be able to run those `opm` commands. 

Actually, if `sh` does not exist in the image, there will be no index images we support as we require to have that for both SQLite and FBC index images, and that's one of the assumptions for this command and stated the risks. I've modified it to state that there won't be any index image we support, thanks for bringing it up.

  
  - Installing an operator bundle when a user provides the operator bundle image they intend to install. This is the default case.
  - Installing an operator bundle when a user provides an index that is a File-Based Catalog (FBC) image.
  - Installing an operator bundle when a user provides an index that is a SQLite based image.
  - Installing an operator bundle when the FBC index provided by the user already has the operator bundle in it. This should error out.
  - Installing an operator bundle when the SQLite index provided by the user already has the operator bundle in it. This should cause the registry pod to fail with the error `Bundle already exists, Bundle already added that provides package and csv`.

- Unit tests for the new FBC changes added to the implementation (with coverage requirements).

- Possibly e2e tests as well (e2e tests don’t exist for the current run bundle command).

### Graduation Criteria

The `run bundle` command with fbc support will come in as non-alpha and be ready to use once merged.

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

### Version Skew Strategy

N/A

## Implementation History

## Drawbacks

N/A

## Alternatives

> There is a potential alternative to handling SQLite based images. Instead of taking the old route of using `opm registry add` and `opm registry serve` commands during the creation of ephemeral registry pod, we could render the SQLite based image using Operator Registry APIs or migrate the SQLite image to the new FBC format and serve the contents through the registry pod, which will trigger the installation of an operator bundle. Essentially, treat both images to be the same by rendering and serving the contents. Although this would require dealing with additional compilation to render the SQLite images to FBC. This is a potential alternative to when the `opm commands` such as `opm registry add` and `opm registry serve` are deprecated and support for those will be removed.

Reviewer: Not sure if I follow up on the latest statement. See that when the deprecated options are removed that means we no longer support SQL index in OPM so why we would need to migrate the old format (SQL) to the new one (fbc)?

Author: Added pros and cons in [commit](https://github.com/operator-framework/enhancements/pull/112/commits/3ec0c649c9004bc3b6b9126a4ed37926a02a6cf3)

- `operator-sdk run bundle <bundle-image> --index-image quay.io/example/testFBCCatalog` would ensure that the bundle image doesn't exist in the `testFBCCatalog` index. If it exists, then we error out. If not, we add the bundle image to the index image by rendering both of these images using the Operator Registry APIs thereby appending the bundle contents to the index and serving the index over the gRPC port.
- `operator-sdk run bundle <bundle-image> --index-image quay.io/example/testSQLiteCatalog` will still be supported in the old way by making use of `opm registry add` and `opm registry serve` commands under the hood and without creating an FBC or rendering the SQLite based image.

#### Prototype Links

- [run bundle prototype branch](<https://github.com/rashmigottipati/operator-sdk/tree/run-bundle-prototype>).
- Initial [POC](<https://github.com/rashmigottipati/run-bundle-POC>) to create a declarative config using Operator Registry APIs.

### Risks and Mitigations

Should we be pinning the upstream opm image `quay.io/operator-framework/opm:` or always use latest.

>     - Consider pinning this image to downstream builds.

Reviewer 2: formatting in markdown

Author: Fixed it and moved it to open questions section.

6. The Operator SDK will invoke more Operator Registry APIs to ensure that the FBC that was generated from the above steps is indeed a valid FBC. This steps essentially validates the generated FBC by converting the declarative config object to a model object which internally performs validations equivalent to the `opm validate <FBC>` command.

7. Three unique data points will be stored in the `IndexImageCatalogCreator` object that will eventually be used in the ephemeral pod:

    - FBC directory name where the FBC file resides in → `FBCDir`
    - FBC file name that has all the contents to be served through the pod → `FBCFile`
    - Contents of FBC file (string YAML/JSON) → `FBCContent`

8. During the creation of the ephemeral pod (which is used to serve the File-Based Catalog to gRPC), the Operator SDK will invoke a set of CLI commands to create a directory and file on the pod during runtime.

9. The contents of the generated File-Based Catalog will be written to the file that is created on the ephemeral pod using the following command template -

    ```go
    `mkdir -p {{ .FBCDir }} && \

>     echo '{{ .FBCContent }}' >> {{ .FBCFile }} && \

Reviewer 3: We should call out here that there is a limit to the size of the `FBCContent` string. For `run bundle` cases that don't specify a catalog image to use, we're probably okay in most scenarios. However, I'm guessing that `run bundle` would fail if the upstream FBC operatorhub catalog was specified as the catalog image.

We likely need to investigate a solution to this problem. My guess is that we'd actually run the FBC catalog image and we'd inject _just_ the extra FBC that we needed to generate for the new bundle.

Author: @joelanford Thanks for mentioning this. Captured this as a note and a risk in the EP. 

I just ran the command with the index image set to `quay.io/operatorhubio/catalog:latest` and it failed with the error `FATA[0031] Failed to run bundle: create catalog: error creating registry pod: error creating pod: Request entity too large: limit is 3145728`. 

How can we inject just the extra FBC that we need to generate for the bundle? Earlier, you mentioned the possibility of mounting it through one or more `ConfigMaps`. Is that a way to go about it?
